Add docs for foreach (#2447)
grafana/alloy: docs/sources/reference/config-blocks/foreach.md

---
canonical: https://grafana.com/docs/alloy/latest/reference/stdlib/foreach/
description: Learn about foreach
menuTitle: foreach
title: foreach
---

<span class="badge docs-labels__stage docs-labels__item">Experimental</span>

# foreach

> {{< docs/shared lookup="stability/experimental.md" source="alloy" version="<ALLOY_VERSION>" >}}

Reviewer: I think that we need a different header here because this ones says "This is an experimental component". We could use another more generic one with "feature"

Reviewer 2: We could either add a new shared topic next to the current `experimental.md`, or add a custom EXPERIMENTAL block quote like we have in `stdlib/array.md` 

```
> **EXPERIMENTAL**: This is an [experimental][] feature.
> Experimental features are subject to frequent breaking changes, and may be removed with no equivalent replacement.
> The `stability.level` flag must be set to `experimental` to use the feature.
```

It says the same as the component-focused one... except uses `feature`.

Either option works... do we expect more experimental features? If yes, it'd probably be best to add a new shared topic... otherwise, an in-line statement should be enough.

Author: Thank you for the feedback! There will be more such features coming up, so I added a new shared topic.

The `foreach` block runs a separate pipeline for each item inside a list.

## Usage

```alloy
foreach "LABEL" {
  collection = [...]

>   var        = "VAR_NAME"

Reviewer 2: That's an update in-progress and I have several in-progress PRs and tracking issues to fix this (among other style related fixes). This follows the guidelines here: https://grafana.com/docs/writers-toolkit/write/style-guide/write-for-developers/#placeholder-variables (which has been documented as a Grafana style for a long time, but hasn't yet been fully or consistently implemented in the Alloy docs).

  template {
    ...
  }
}
```

## Arguments

The following arguments are supported:

Name             | Type        | Description                                                           | Default | Required
-----------------|-------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------|---------|---------
`collection`     | `list(any)` | A list of items to loop over.                                         |         | yes
`var`            | `string`    | Name of the variable referring to the current item in the collection. |         | yes
`enable_metrics` | `bool`      | Whether to expose debug metrics in Alloy's `/metrics` endpoint.       | `false` | no

> `collection` could contain any [type][types] such as a bool, a string, a list, or a map.

Author: Is it more clear if I reword it to:

> The items in the `collection` list can be of any type such as a bool, a string, a list, or a map.

> `collection` could contain any [type][types] such as a bool, a string, a list, or a map.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The items in the `collection` list be of any type [type][types], such as a bool, a string, a list, or a map.
```

Add a comma and it should be good.

{{< admonition type="warning" >}}

Setting `enable_metrics` to `true` when `collection` has lots of elements may cause a large number of metrics to appear on Alloy's `/metric` endpoint.
{{< /admonition >}}

[types]: ../../../get-started/configuration-syntax/expressions/types_and_values

## Blocks

The following blocks are supported inside the definition of `foreach`:

Hierarchy | Block        | Description                  | Required
----------|--------------|------------------------------|---------
template  | [template][] | A component pipeline to run. | yes

[template]: #template-block

### template block

The `template` block contains the definition of Alloy components which will be ran for every item in the collection.

> The contents of the block look like a normal Alloy config file, except that you can use the keyword defined in `var` to refer to the current item in the collection.

Reviewer: We should probably specific that components inside of the template can use exports of components that are outside of the foreach block but components outside of the foreach cannot use exports from components inside of the template.

Author: Good point! I added this to the doc.

## Examples

> ### Run Prometheus exporters dynamically on service discovery targets

Reviewer 2: We can expand it then to Examples (with the s) if/when we add more examples?

> ### Run Prometheus exporters dynamically on service discovery targets

Author: I didn't want to bother thinking of a title again, but it's ok, it's not that much effort. I'll change it to "Example" :)

`prometheus.exporter.*` components often require the address of one particular instance being monitored.
For example, `prometheus.exporter.redis` has a `redis_addr` attribute for the Redis instance under observation.
On the other hand, `discovery.*` components such as `discovery.kubernetes` output a list of targets such as this:

> {{< collapse title="Example targets output by discovery.kubernetes" >}}

Author: The reason I included the collapsible section is to illustrate what the contents of `collection` are.

	__meta_kubernetes_pod_container_port_protocol        = "TCP",
	__meta_kubernetes_pod_controller_kind                = "ReplicaSet",
	__meta_kubernetes_pod_controller_name                = "redis-db-778b66cb7d",
	__meta_kubernetes_pod_host_ip                        = "172.25.0.2",
	__meta_kubernetes_pod_ip                             = "10.42.0.20",
	__meta_kubernetes_pod_label_name                     = "redis-db",
	__meta_kubernetes_pod_label_pod_template_hash        = "778b66cb7d",
	__meta_kubernetes_pod_labelpresent_name              = "true",
	__meta_kubernetes_pod_labelpresent_pod_template_hash = "true",
	__meta_kubernetes_pod_name                           = "redis-db-778b66cb7d-wxmf6",
	__meta_kubernetes_pod_node_name                      = "k3d-asserts-test-server-0",
	__meta_kubernetes_pod_phase                          = "Running",
	__meta_kubernetes_pod_ready                          = "true",
	__meta_kubernetes_pod_uid                            = "ae74e400-8eda-4b02-b4c8-669473fb001b",
	}
]
```
{{< /collapse >}}

You can use a `foreach` to loop over each target and start a separate component pipeline for it.

> The example below shows how a `prometheus.exporter.redis` instance is started for each Redis instance discoverd by `discovery.kubernetes`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following example configuration shows how a `prometheus.exporter.redis` instance is started for each Redis instance discoverd by `discovery.kubernetes`.
```

Setting `enable_metrics` to `true` when `collection` has lots of elements may cause a large number of metrics to appear on the {{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}} `/metric` endpoint.
{{< /admonition >}}

[types]: ../../../get-started/configuration-syntax/expressions/types_and_values

## Blocks

The following blocks are supported inside the definition of `foreach`:

Hierarchy | Block        | Description                  | Required
----------|--------------|------------------------------|---------
template  | [template][] | A component pipeline to run. | yes

[template]: #template-block

### template

The `template` block contains the definition of {{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}} components which will be ran for every item in the collection.
The contents of the block look like a normal {{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}} configuration file,
except that you can use the keyword defined in `var` to refer to the current item in the collection.

Components inside the `template` block can use exports of components defined outside of the `foreach` block.
However, components outside of the `foreach` cannot use exports from components defined inside the `template` block of a `foreach`.

## Example

> The following example shows you how to run Run Prometheus exporters dynamically on service discovery targets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example shows you how to run Prometheus exporters dynamically on service discovery targets.
```
